---
layout: post
title: Is Melbourne getting too hot?          
subtitle: "Exploring canopies distribution over Melbourne City and visualizing the impacts on temperature raising"
date: 2024-05-06 23:45:13 -0400
background: '/img/posts/01.jpg'
---
Global warming has been a threat for long time now. It is common knowledge that urban areas are heating up. When in metropolitan areas building are built close together, they trap the heat, which will lead to an increase of the surrounding temperatures.

Big metropolitan areas like Melbourne, which count a population of over 5 million people can become unbearable to live in when the temperature is too hot. In heavily populated areas the hot air can find some difficulties to escape and temperature can boost up. In order to not be biased by the cement percentage let's observe the graph of the mean temperature from year 1910 to 2022 in Olympic Park Melbourne. 

Olympic Park Melbourne is an area in the inner not surrounded by a lot of building. However, as you can see from the graph the temperature mean went up during the year. The reader might notice some peaks in the graph. An interesting one is the one that happened in 2009 where the maximum registered temperature was og 46.5 degrees celsius. 

Is there a solution to global warming? For sure there is and they have been largely discussed over and over but in the meantime the world keeps spinning and living in the center of a big city can become unsustainable. What is that make you relief from the sun? Shadow, you will look for shadow. Where people can find refuge in extreme heat ? 

According to different research like , trees can clean the air around you and reduce the amount of pollution. How is Melbourne doing regarding tree quantity? 

The City of Melbourne has understood the tree effects indeed it is aiming to increase its canopy cover to 40 per cent by 2040 by planting more than 3000 trees per year. What is the canopy percentage at the moment?